# Variational Autoencoder Models

These models were trained for the purposes of EE4685 Machine Learning, A Bayesian Perspective. The models in the repository include a Variational Autoencoder and a Vector Quantized Variational Autoencoder.
Their files can be found in the models folder. They are all abstracted through a base file in order to make training easier.

## How the models were originally trained

The models were originally trained through google colab using Nvidia's T4 GPU, with all the files stored in google drive. The pytorch version used was the default one colab made available that being 2.10.0.

## How to train the models

The train folder contains a few notebooks, the primary one being *train_fp32* which performs normal precision training for the VAE and VQ-VAE. The first section of the notebook can be edited to fix the path as per the user's requirement.
The second section allows for selection of any model among a linear VAE, convolutional VAE and VQ-VAE to be trained along with hyperparameter tuning. The logging folder and file names can also be edited later in the same cell otherwise an autogenerated name will fill in.

The *train_mixed* notebook is the same as the normal precision notebook except performs training using the **AMP** package of pytorch. The tuning and pathing procedures remain the same.

The *train_prior* file contains the training procedure for a prior **Pixel CNN** in order to generate images using the VQ-VAE. The desired VQ-VAE model path can be provided in order for training of the prior.

***Note: Additional folders called logs and outputs exist in the original training procedure where jsons for loss and hyperparam logging and reconstructions are stored. The checkpoints get stored in a models/checkpoints folder***
